Clase-01
========

R es un entorno de software libre para gráficos y computación estadística. Se compila y ejecuta en una amplia variedad de plataformas UNIX, 
Windows y MacOS. Para descargar R, elija su servidor CRAN preferido.

https://www.r-project.org/

-----------------------------------------------------

https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/R_(programming_language)

R is a programming language for statistical computing and data visualization. It has been adopted in the fields of data mining, 
bioinformatics and data analysis.[9]

The core R language is augmented by a large number of extension packages, containing reusable code, documentation, and sample data.

R software is open-source and free software. It is licensed by the GNU Project and available under the GNU General Public License.[3] It is 
written primarily in C, Fortran, and R itself. Precompiled executables are provided for various operating systems.

As an interpreted language, R has a native command line interface. Moreover, multiple third-party graphical user interfaces are available, 
such as RStudio—an integrated development environment—and Jupyter—a notebook interface.

R was started by professors Ross Ihaka and Robert Gentleman as a programming language to teach introductory statistics at the University of 
Auckland.[10] The language was inspired by the S programming language, with most S programs able to run unaltered in R.[6] The language was 
also inspired by Scheme's lexical scoping, allowing for local variables.[1]

The name of the language, R, comes from being both an S language successor as well as the shared first letter of the authors, Ross and 
Robert.[11] In August 1993, Ihaka and Gentleman posted a binary of R on StatLib — a data archive website.[12] At the same time, they 
announced the posting on the s-news mailing list.[13] On December 5, 1997, R became a GNU project when version 0.60 was released.[14] On 
February 29, 2000, the first official 1.0 version was released.[15]

---------------------------------------------

https://www.w3schools.com/r/

R Tutorial

----------------------------------------------

https://es.wikipedia.org/wiki/R_(lenguaje_de_programaci%C3%B3n)

R es un entorno y lenguaje de programación con un enfoque al análisis estadístico.

R nació como una reimplementación de software libre del lenguaje S, adicionado con soporte para ámbito estático. Se trata de uno de los 
lenguajes de programación más utilizados en investigación científica, siendo además muy popular en los campos de aprendizaje automático 
(machine learning), minería de datos, econometría, investigación biomédica, bioinformática y en la inferencia estadística. A esto contribuye 
la posibilidad de cargar diferentes bibliotecas o paquetes con funcionalidades de cálculo y graficación.

R es parte del sistema GNU y se distribuye bajo la licencia GNU GPL. Está disponible para los sistemas operativos Windows, Macintosh, Unix y 
GNU/Linux.

Historia
Fue desarrollado inicialmente por Robert Gentleman y Ross Ihaka del Departamento de Estadística de la Universidad de Auckland en 1993.1​ Sin 
embargo, si se remonta a sus bases iniciales, puede decirse que se inició en los Bell Laboratories de AT&T y ahora Alcatel-Lucent en Nueva 
Jersey con el lenguaje S. Este último, un sistema para el análisis de datos desarrollado por John Chambers, Rick Becker, y colaboradores 
diferentes desde finales de 1970. La historia desde este punto es prácticamente la del lenguaje S. Los diseñadores iniciales, Gentleman e 
Ihaka, combinaron las fortalezas de dos lenguajes existentes, S y Scheme. En sus propias palabras: "El lenguaje resultante es muy similar en 
apariencia a S, pero en el uso de fondo y la semántica es derivado desde Scheme". El resultado se llamó R "en parte al reconocimiento de la 
influencia de S y en parte para hacer gala de sus propios logros".2​

Su desarrollo actual es responsabilidad del R Development Core Team. Para saber más al respecto y en el entorno del programa, puede 
teclearse contributors(); el la lista desplegada aparecen los nombres de los autores iniciales y los actuales pertenecientes al R 
Development Core Team (Equipo Central de Desarrolladores R).

-----------------------------------------------------------

https://www.geeksforgeeks.org/r-programming-language-introduction/

The R Language stands out as a powerful tool in the modern era of statistical computing and data analysis. Widely embraced by statisticians, 
data scientists, and researchers, the R Language offers an extensive suite of packages and libraries tailored for data manipulation, 
statistical modeling, and visualization. In this article, we explore the features, benefits, and applications of the R Programming Language, 
shedding light on why it has become an indispensable asset for data-driven professionals across various industries.

R programming language is an implementation of the S programming language. It also combines with lexical scoping semantics inspired by 
Scheme. Moreover, the project was conceived in 1992, with an initial version released in 1995 and a stable beta version in 2000.

------------------------------------------------------------

https://www.datacamp.com/blog/all-about-r

------------------------------------------------------------


https://www.codecademy.com/learn/learn-r

------------------------------------------------------------

https://bookdown.org/rdpeng/rprogdatascience/history-and-overview-of-r.html

------------------------------------------------------------


https://www.techtarget.com/searchbusinessanalytics/definition/R-programming-language

------------------------------------------------------------


https://www.simplilearn.com/what-is-r-article
------------------------------------------------------------

https://rstudio.github.io/r-manuals/r-lang/Introduction.html

------------------------------------------------------------

https://pwskills.com/blog/r-programming-language/

------------------------------------------------------------


https://www.w3schools.com/r/r_intro.asp

------------------------------------------------------------



